docs: federation overview (#3205)
apollographql/federation: docs/source/schema-design/federated-schemas/federation.mdx

---
title: Introduction to Apollo Federation
subtitle: Learn how federation orchestrates your APIs into a unified supergraph
description: Learn how Apollo Federation helps you declaratively orchestrate your APIs and services into a unified, federated GraphQL API using a microservices architecture.
redirectFrom:
    - /federation
---

> Apollo Federation enables you to declaratively combine multiple APIs into a single federated graph. A client makes a single request to a federated GraphQL API, and federation orchestrates calls to multiple APIs to produce a single response.  

Reviewer: - I more returned "lets" so "enable" didn't get repetitive in the second sentence. Happy to return it with this new iteration!

```suggestion
Apollo Federation enables you to declaratively combine multiple APIs into a single federated GraphQL API. Federation serves as an API orchestration layer, where clients make a single GraphQL request and it coordinates multiple API calls to return a unified response.
```

A client makes a request to the federated GraphQL API's single entry point called the _router_. The router intelligently orchestrates and distributes the request across your APIs and returns a unified response. For a client, the request and response cycle of querying the router looks the same as querying any GraphQL server.

<img src='../../images/federation.svg' class="dark:hidden"/>

> <img src='../../images/federation-dark.svg' class="hidden dark:block"/>

Reviewer: Should we replace this diagram with one that includes connectors?

Author: good call, we can update in follow-up PR

Ready to get started? 

- Connect REST APIs to your graph using Apollo Connectors with the [REST quickstart](/graphos/get-started/guides/rest-quickstart).

- Create and run a federated graph with the [Quickstart](/graphos/get-started/guides/quickstart).

### Additional resources

Depending on your goals, you have several options for learning more about federation: 

- If you're new to federated architecture, this [overview article](https://graphql.com/learn/federated-architecture/) can introduce the concepts.

> - If you learn best by doing:

Reviewer: Can we use the `<OdysseyCallout>` component for these?
